Well we're getting pretty close.
Now we've got most of the pieces modeled and sculpted.
The one thing that I really need to do here is this shoulder armor thing I did this some time ago and
I'm not really happy with it.
It basically looks like half of a sphere squished and extruded.
And that's exactly what it is.
And I'll tell you I think one of the reasons why it turned out like this and that I'm not pleased with
it is because I didn't use any reference images I didn't go out and search for images like these to
help me.
Grounded in reality.
I was just looking at the drawing I made so I'm not happy with it.
I want to do it again.
So I'm just going to hit X and delete now.
I think what I want to do is use the read typology tools again just to get a base mesh of the shoulder.
I just want to do that.
So what I'm going to do is just go to the body here and I'm going to come in here and use those read
apology tools again.
So before we draw anything out on the shoulder here with the grease pencil Let's go ahead and create
one of those empty objects that we used before.
When I come over here to the Create tab and just create a cube and that's down here now I'm going to
hit the tab key and I just want to collapse all of these vertices down into one point.
I don't need it to have any surface at all.
So with the cube in edit mode and in vertex mode here I'll press alt M and choose at center.
And now that's collapsed into one point.
Let's find that object here.
There it is.
I'll just call this shoulder armor.
And so now we have this point in edit mode here.
All right.
So let's go over to the grease pencil and with this.
Now I need to create a new greased pencil data block and I need to draw on the surface of the object
so I click surface.
Make sure that object is selected and click draw.
So now we've got a new grease pencil layer here.
We're drawing on the object on the surface so I should be able to come in here and now draw the beginnings
of my geometry for the shoulder armor here so I'm just going to draw a straight across here.
And then draw straight across here.
And then I'll add a couple of edges this way something like that Tenafly tumble around we can see that
those grease pencil lines have conformed to the character's shoulder.
All right so now that I have those I'm going to press Enter I'll go back to my tools tab and I'll just
roll up the transform section here and roll up the mash section.
And now I can see the B surfaces a little better.
So now I should be able with my shoulder armor selected and it in edit mode.
I should be able to hit add surfaces and there we go.
Now it's got new geometry here for the beginning of that shoulder pad.
I need to see it a little better so I'll come over here to the object window and scroll down and choose
x ray so we can see that a little better now.
All right.
So what I want to do is select this edge and extrude it on up over the shoulder up to here I think and
then I'll just use this as the base geometry to then create something kind of like this or maybe like
that.
I'm not sure yet.
Let's go back to the grease pencil and let's click draw.
And what I want to do is just then extend this geometry up to the shoulder area right up in here.
So I click draw and now I'm just going to extend this up to here.
Maybe like this
this and I'm just trying to get the basic shape of the object that's all yeah let's work let's work
with that.
All right.
So I'm going to press the enter key.
I'm going to come back over here and go to edge mode and select these edges.
And now if I go back to my tools tab and click add surfaces I can just extend that on up over the shoulder.
Now I don't need that many polygons again all reduce reduced follow to 1 and that'll give me a nice
beginning I think to what will be the shoulder pad there.
All right so I'm going to tab out of edit mode and there we have our shoulder piece.
I will hit the end key to move it to a new layer.
I'll just move it to layer 3 here.
Riego and now I've got this piece that I can work with.
I want to go ahead and turn off the mat cap simply because I don't know I just feel like it.
Now I want to see it in that gray shading.
I don't know I just feel like I'm more used to that when I'm polygon modeling.
I don't know why.
I think I'll move the pivot point back to the geometry so I'll come over here to the tools tab click
Set origin and move the origin to the geometry.
So there it is.
And if I hit the period key you'll notice that it doesn't really frame up the object here.
Well the problem is is there still a point down here I can tap into Edit Mode go to vertex mode and
wait and here there's a little point.
So if I can just hit X and choose vertices get rid of that then hopefully if I go back to object mode
and hit the period key it'll zoom into it.
All right so here is the beginnings of our shoulder armor from here it's just a matter of using good
old fashioned polygon modeling to get it the way we want it to look.
So what I'm going to do is begin over here.
And I think I just want to get one more extrusion over the shoulder here maybe I'll bring back the character
so I can see a little better.
And I'm just going to bring it up and maybe over a bit.
So I can see the shoulder armor above the shoulder there.
Let's also see where that strap is.
Bring back that layer.
All right so the strap is pretty high up it's higher than I would have expected.
I'm going to need to extrude this out one more time.
So let me go back to edge mode here and select these and extrude and pull that up.
So yeah we get something like that to cover where it's going to meet with the strap.
So what let's do now is just select this edge and extrude it down and over the front of the shoulder
here.
So if I select these edges here and then extrude down around the shoulder they'll just hit me and extrude
this once and down.
Maybe move it over a bit.
I think it needs one more hit me and pull it down a bit.
I'll do the same thing over the back.
And let's pull it down.
You again
I'm also going to grab these two edges I think and extrude these down as well.
So
and maybe over here to connect up with the strap here.
So now let's go ahead and figure out how tall this needs to come up here.
I'd like it to come up a bit to protect the neck if we can use this edge right here.
And let's extrude this straight up
like that.
And then go to our Virtex mode here and I'm just going to bring these pieces down so they're not quite
as high.
Now I think I'd like to start shaping this area a little better now.
So I'm going to go to Virtex mode and I'm just going to begin pulling points and tell and see if I can
get a basic shape here that I like.
Sometimes this is just what you need to do.
Just start pulling points and seeing what happens.
Right go ahead and add a subdivision surface modifier and see what happens.
I don't honestly know what's going to happen here.
But let's give it a try.
And always smooth it a bit.
All right so that looks pretty good.
But let's go into edit mode here.
And I'm going to select the edge all the way around.
Just going to hold shift and alt and click these edges all the way around.
And I think I'll just extrude and click and I'm going to drag straight down and move it a bit.
Now let's just test this.
Let's add a few edge loops along here and see what happens.
See if that holds that pretty well.
Yeah it's beginning to.
This is kind of rounded here I'd like it a little more pointed if I could.
But let's see if we can do with that.
Yeah I think we're getting there.
I think that's beginning to look a little better than the last time.